[DOC] Architecture update (#15)
Mirantis/mke-docs: content/docs/concepts/architecture/architecture.md

# MKE Architecture

Mirantis Kubernetes Engine (MKE) 4 is an enterprise-grade, production-ready

> Kubernetes platform designed to be secure, scalable, and reliable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes platform that is designed to be secure, scalable, and reliable.
```
```suggestion
Kubernetes platform designed to be secure, scalable, and reliable.
```

> MKE 4 is deployed using an MKE configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You deploy the software using an MKE configuration file.
```

> You deploy the software using an MKE configuration file.

Reviewer 2: IMO this might read better as

"The entire cluster and its components can be managed using a single configuration file"

> See the [Configuration and blueprints](configuration.md) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Configuration and blueprints](configuration.md) for more information.
```

## Components

MKE 4 is built on top of k0s, a lightweight Kubernetes distribution.

> See the [official k0s documentation](https://docs.k0sproject.io/v1.29.3+k0s.0/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [official k0s documentation](https://docs.k0sproject.io/v1.29.3+k0s.0/)
```

for more information.

### Control plane

> MKE 4 uses a control plane that oversees crucial cluster-wide decisions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MKE 4 control plane oversees crucial cluster-wide decisions,
```

> The MKE 4 control plane oversees crucial cluster-wide decisions, monitoring and

Reviewer 2: This isn't true. And we don't really have "setup scripts".

Users can select whether a node is used as a manager, worker, or manager+worker in their node configuration section.

Reviewer: Tabling Control plane for Alpha.1 initial docs, with a comment at the bottom of the file to revisit.

> and monitors and responds to events within the cluster.

Reviewer: Consider:

The MKE 4 control plane oversees crucial cluster-wide decisions, monitoring and responding to events within the cluster.

> While the control plane components can function on any machine in the cluster,

Reviewer: What is meant here by "streamline the process"? What process?

Perhaps something like:

"And while the control plane can function on any machine in the cluster, setup scripts ensure maximum efficiency by running all control plane components on one machine and by excluding user containers from that machine."

setup scripts streamline the process by running all control plane 
components on one machine and excluding user containers from that machine.

### Container Network Interface 

> By default, MKE 4 installs Calico as the Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin with the following configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Calico is installed as the Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin, with the following configuration:
```

> - IPv4 only with a fixed Pod CIDR of `10.244.0.0/16`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- IPv4 only, with a fixed Pod CIDR of `10.244.0.0/16`.
```

> - The datastore mode is set to `kdd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The datastore mode set to `kdd`.
```

- `kube-proxy` set to `iptables` mode. 

> - `vxlan` backend, which uses the default port of `4789` for traffic and default virtual network ID of `4096`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A `vxlan` backend, which uses the default port of `4789` for traffic and default virtual network ID of `4096`.
```

> With the Alpha.1 release, MKE 4 has the following limitations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MKE 4 Alpha.1 release has the following limitations:
```

> - There is no option to use a different CNI plugin.
> - There is no option to configure Calico from the above defaults.
> - When a cluster is upgraded from MKE 3, the Calico configuration is not migrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The CNI plugin cannot be changed.
- Calico cannot be reconfigured.
- The Calico configuration is not migrated during an upgrade to MKE4 from MKE 3.
```
